# DGL104 - Process Portfolio
## Author: Reeve Jarvis
### Week 1 Activities:
**Activity 0101**:

Towards the end of last semester we began to discuss recursion and implementing recursive solutions to problems we had previously approached in an iterative way. I found these recursive problems to be much more difficult to comprehend. One programming problem that stumped me was regarding a recursive method that conducts a binary search, but the method was limited to only two parameters: a String target, and an array of Strings. I struggled to find a solution that would return the intended results. My primary issue was with properly adjusting the range of values I would be searching within, as after each binary search half of the possibilities are removed. Some thorough research on Stack Overflow and additional online resources led me to some possible solutions, however all of them used more parameters (representing the boundaries of the search) than the amount I was restricted to for my solution. I declared min, max, and mid variables to establish the boundaries of the search, however I was unable to figure out how to adjust these values appropriatly after each attempted search and maintain the integrity of my code. Due to time constraints and other course responsibilities I was unable to come to a successful solution. Looking back now I feel that if I were to use Indirect Recursion, and write additional methods to establish the boundaries of the search that in turn call the initial method I may have been more successful. Though I was unable to complete this problem, I know that with some more research of code examples and time to explore this issue further I would come to a viable solution. I intend to explore recursion further, when time permits, to increase my understanding as I know it is an important aspect of programming.  

**Activity 0102**:

Examining my code from last semester, there are definitely some areas for improvement when it comes to Readability. In CPS100 we were constantly reminded to comment our intentions before we begin coding. This is something that I struggled to follow, and led to comments being added after I had finished coding. The resulting comments were far too descriptive and word-heavy, impeding the readability of my programs and causes unnecessary clutter. Updating my code would also require more work to update the comments accordingly. As described in the reading, it is best to be generous with documentation comments and stingy with implementation comments. I intend to work on following this guideline in the future, and keep the implementation comments to a minimum while addressing my intentions prior to coding. Another area of improvement I can extract from the reading, is in using the most appropriate loop for the situation. We worked on various dice games for one of our assignments, and in particular my solution for a game called Pig had a complicated series of nested loops. At the time I was more concerned with functionality rather than readability. I feel that with some further refactoring I could simplify my solution, reduce the amount of loops involved and improve the users understanding. Lastly, I could improve upon naming my variables. The above mentioned Pig game relied upon multiple variables to track data values between the player and computer. The names of some of these variables got a bit lengthy, and in some cases resulted in redundancies. With some refactoring, and simplifying my class down into more methods I could have avoided these redundancies and in turn improved readability by providing simplified names for the variables to be shared across both player and computer. 